After a fine career, his father
a mild rebuke was his worst mark,
and bred upon the Neva's brink,
and glumly serves the medicine bottle,
and never played a shrewder trick.
and never stir a foot away!
and now at last he saw the World.
and sighs, and asks oneself all through:
and then a stroll in Letny Park.
And the sly baseness, fit to throttle,
as horses whirled him through the dust.
as well-read, though of pedant cast.
at first Madame gave him tuition,
But God, how deadly dull to sample
but I'm allergic to the North...1
but when past joking he fell sick,
But when the hour of youthful passion
by will of Zeus, the high and just,
critical judges, strict as any
Eugene as clever, and quite sweet.
Eugene was free, and as a dresser
Fate saved Evgeny from perdition:
felicitously every theme,
Friends of my Ruslan and Lyudmila,
from her Monsieur took on the child.
had only debts on which to live.
haphazard; so, to God be thanks,
He gave three balls a year, and rather
he had the talent of saluting
he really forced one to admire him --
He was sweet-natured, and yet wild.
his bow was wholly unaffected.
His hair was fashionably curled,
In French Onegin had perfected
in the mazurka he was light,
it's easy, without too much fooling,
it was goodbye, Monsieur l'Abbé.
let me acquaint you on the nail
Let others learn from his example!
made London's dandy his professor.
Monsieur l'Abbé, the mediocre,
My uncle -- high ideals inspire him;
No moralizing from this joker;
of entertaining the half-dead:
of hope and gloom, romantic-fashion,
of kindling smiles in ladies' eyes.
of listening like a judge-supreme
Onegin, my good friend, was littered
Onegin was assessed by many
one smoothes the pillows down in bed,
or, with an epigram-surprise,
proficiency to speak and write,
promptly had nothing left to give.
reader, or where you've shone and glittered!
reluctant to exhaust the boy,
sickroom attendance night and day
struck for Evgeny, with its play
Such were a young rake's meditations --
the legatee of his relations --
There once I too strolled back and forth:
The World found this enough to treat
to pass for cultured in our ranks.
treated his lessons as a ploy.
Unforced, as conversation passed,
We all meandered through our schooling
"When will the devil come for you?"''
where you were born as well, I think,
while serious topics were disputing,
without preliminary feeler
with this the hero of my tale:


