Friends of my Ruslan and Lyudmila,
it was goodbye, Monsieur l'Abbé.
of entertaining the half-dead:
one smoothes the pillows down in bed,
His hair was fashionably curled,
reader, or where you've shone and glittered!
Onegin, my good friend, was littered
Unforced, as conversation passed,
his bow was wholly unaffected.
In French Onegin had perfected
from her Monsieur took on the child.
He was sweet-natured, and yet wild.
and now at last he saw the World.
with this the hero of my tale:
But God, how deadly dull to sample
Let others learn from his example!
and glumly serves the medicine bottle,
And the sly baseness, fit to throttle,
felicitously every theme,
of listening like a judge-supreme
Monsieur l'Abbé, the mediocre,
or, with an epigram-surprise,
proficiency to speak and write,
promptly had nothing left to give.
had only debts on which to live.
it's easy, without too much fooling,
We all meandered through our schooling
he had the talent of saluting
while serious topics were disputing,
and sighs, and asks oneself all through:
There once I too strolled back and forth:
but I'm allergic to the North...1
and never played a shrewder trick.
but when past joking he fell sick,
where you were born as well, I think,
and bred upon the Neva's brink,
a mild rebuke was his worst mark,
and then a stroll in Letny Park.
let me acquaint you on the nail
he really forced one to admire him --
My uncle -- high ideals inspire him;
of hope and gloom, romantic-fashion,
But when the hour of youthful passion
Fate saved Evgeny from perdition:
at first Madame gave him tuition,
After a fine career, his father
He gave three balls a year, and rather
No moralizing from this joker;
without preliminary feeler
Eugene was free, and as a dresser
made London's dandy his professor.
of kindling smiles in ladies' eyes.
haphazard; so, to God be thanks,
to pass for cultured in our ranks.
the legatee of his relations --
Such were a young rake's meditations --
The World found this enough to treat
Eugene as clever, and quite sweet.
in the mazurka he was light,
as well-read, though of pedant cast.
as horses whirled him through the dust.
by will of Zeus, the high and just,
"When will the devil come for you?"''
sickroom attendance night and day
struck for Evgeny, with its play
and never stir a foot away!
Onegin was assessed by many
critical judges, strict as any
reluctant to exhaust the boy,
treated his lessons as a ploy.


